`FileReader.readyState`: combine value table and list (#33569)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/filereader/readystate/index.md

{{APIRef("File API")}}{{AvailableInWorkers}}

The **`readyState`** read-only property of the {{domxref("FileReader")}} interface provides the current state of the reading operation.
This will be one of the states: `EMPTY`, `LOADING`, or `DONE`.

## Value

A number which is one of the three possible state constants define for the {{domxref("FileReader")}} API.

- `FileReader.EMPTY`
  - : Reader has been created, but none of the read methods have been called yet.
- `FileReader.LOADING`
  - : A read method has been called. A {{domxref("File")}} or {{domxref("Blob")}} is being read, and no error has occurred yet.
- `FileReader.DONE`

> - : The read operation is complete.
>   This could mean that: the entire {{domxref("File")}} or {{domxref("Blob")}} has been read into memory, a file read error occurred, or {{domxref("FileReader.abort()", "abort()")}} was called and the read was cancelled.

Author: ```suggestion
  - : The read operation is complete. This could mean that: the entire {{domxref("File")}} or {{domxref("Blob")}} has been read into memory, a file read error occurred, or {{domxref("FileReader.abort()", "abort()")}} was called and the read was cancelled.
```

> The **`readyState`** read-only property of the {{domxref("FileReader")}} interface provides the current state of the reading operation a `FileReader` is in. A `FileReader` exists in one of the following states:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`readyState`** read-only property of the {{domxref("FileReader")}} interface provides the current state of the reading operation.
This will be one of the states: `EMPTY`, `LOADING`, or `DONE`.
```

> | Value | State     | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
> | ----- | --------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
> | `0`   | `EMPTY`   | Reader has been created, but none of the read methods called yet.                                                                                                                                                                                         |
> | `1`   | `LOADING` | A read method has been called. A {{domxref("File")}} or {{domxref("Blob")}} is being read, and no error has occurred yet.                                                                                                                                 |
> | `2`   | `DONE`    | The read operation is complete. This could mean that: the entire {{domxref("File")}} or {{domxref("Blob")}} has been read into memory, a file read error occurred, or {{domxref("FileReader.abort()", "abort()")}} was called and the read was cancelled. |

Reviewer: Tables are the case to get rid of if you can. Something like this, though you will need to modify the preceding sentence too.

```suggestion
- `0`
  - : `EMPTY`. Reader has been created, but none of the read methods have been called yet.
- `1`
  - : `LOADING`. A read method has been called. A {{domxref("File")}} or {{domxref("Blob")}} is being read, and no error has occurred yet. 
- `2`
  - : `DONE`: The read operation is complete.
    This could mean that: the entire {{domxref("File")}} or {{domxref("Blob")}} has been read into memory, a file read error occurred, or {{domxref("FileReader.abort()", "abort()")}} was called and the read was cancelled. 
```

## Value

> A number which is one of the three possible state constants define for the {{domxref("FileReader")}} API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A number which is one of the three possible state constants define for the {{domxref("FileReader")}} API:

- `0`
  - : `EMPTY`. Reader has been created, but none of the read methods have been called yet.
- `1`
  - : `LOADING`. A read method has been called. A {{domxref("File")}} or {{domxref("Blob")}} is being read, and no error has occurred yet. 
- `2`
  - : `DONE`: The read operation is complete.
    This could mean that: the entire {{domxref("File")}} or {{domxref("Blob")}} has been read into memory, a file read error occurred, or {{domxref("FileReader.abort()", "abort()")}} was called and the read was cancelled. 
```

Reviewer: NOTE, "state constants defined". Are these actually defined? I mean if I compare the value from this property to one of those names will the code work? If not, let's make it clear these are not constants, their just handy state names.

Author: Yes, these are realy constant defined in the specification and is available via the `FileReader` constructor and its proptotype, like `FileReader.EMPTY` or `FileReader.prototype.EMPTY` (which both represent the number `0`).
Though using number `0` directly will work, but use the defined constant will be more readable.

![image](https://github.com/mdn/content/assets/95597335/5ab89394-1d69-4907-95e2-0b6edf2159a6)

![image](https://github.com/mdn/content/assets/95597335/ecb04daa-051c-4d0f-8ebf-8525f9889c7a)

see also https://github.com/orgs/mdn/discussions/666

Reviewer: Thank you. Then perhaps: 

```suggestion
A number which is one of the three possible state constants define for the {{domxref("FileReader")}} API.

- `FileReader.EMPTY`
  - : Reader has been created, but none of the read methods have been called yet. 
- `FileReader.LOADING`
  - : A read method has been called. A {{domxref("File")}} or {{domxref("Blob")}} is being read, and no error has occurred yet. 
-  `FileReader.DONE`
  - : The read operation is complete.
    This could mean that: the entire {{domxref("File")}} or {{domxref("Blob")}} has been read into memory, a file read error occurred, or {{domxref("FileReader.abort()", "abort()")}} was called and the read was cancelled. 
```

Reviewer: PS A very ominous discussion `https://github.com/orgs/mdn/discussions/666`.

I argue this is the right way to do it ^^^ because this is the value we expect people to use, in the same way as we would normally provide a string.

The **`readyState`** read-only property of the {{domxref("FileReader")}} interface provides the current state of the reading operation a `FileReader` is in. A `FileReader` exists in one of the following states:

> | Value | State     | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
> | ----- | --------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
> | `0`   | `EMPTY`   | Reader has been created, but none of the read methods called yet.                                                                                                                                                                                         |
> | `1`   | `LOADING` | A read method has been called. A {{domxref("File")}} or {{domxref("Blob")}} is being read, and no error has occurred yet.                                                                                                                                 |
> | `2`   | `DONE`    | The read operation is complete. This could mean that: the entire {{domxref("File")}} or {{domxref("Blob")}} has been read into memory, a file read error occurred, or {{domxref("FileReader.abort()", "abort()")}} was called and the read was cancelled. |
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> | Value | State     | Description                                                   |
> | ----- | --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |

Author: ```suggestion
| Value | State     | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| ----- | --------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
```

> | `0`   | `EMPTY`   | Reader has been created, but none of the read methods called yet. |
> | `1`   | `LOADING` | A read method has been called. A {{domxref("File")}} or {{domxref("Blob")}} is being read, and no error has occurred yet. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `0`   | `EMPTY`   | Reader has been created, but none of the read methods called yet.                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `1`   | `LOADING` | A read method has been called. A {{domxref("File")}} or {{domxref("Blob")}} is being read, and no error has occurred yet.                                                                                                                                 |
```
